So far we had a look at the general setup but we got one major new thing here, this .vue file
which seems to be important. In one of the earlier videos, I was talking about so called single file templates
which basically means we have a special kind of file which gets compiled during the build process so
that we can ship compiled code to the browser, so that we don't have to use the el ref or the el property
to have our html code converted to a template, so that we don't have to use the template property
to create a string template
but that we have a third option, which you will learn about now, which allows us to outsource our template
in our vuejs code in separate files which will get compiled to normal javascript, therefore are able
to run natively in the browser.
You can compile any template, any html code to javascript in the end because there are
javascript object representations of your html elements. And that is how we want to build our applications,
to first don't have to ship the compiler when deploying our app, that reduces the file size of the vuejs
package by 30% as we learned earlier
and second, to unlock some features which are not possible to be used in the native dom, if we were to
use the native dom as our template because there, some limitations apply which don't apply when having
our javascript compiled template.
So enough of the talking, what do we have here?
We have the main.js
file and that will be the first file which gets executed when the bundle here gets loaded in the
index.html file.
Now all what's happening here is that we create a new vue instance here and we import vue from the vue folder,
so that is how we have access to vuejs and can create our new instance here.
Then we select the el, the element with the app here, with the app selector, so this element and I was just saying
that we don't need the el property anymore,
well we needed to select a place where we want to load our vue app but we don't use it to then infer
a template,
instead by using this new property here, this new function to be precise, the surrender function, we haven't
seen that before,
we're telling vuejs well take this place in the dom specified with the el property but don't infer
the template, instead as with template where we also would provide another template to override
this place in the dom, instead here override it with this code we render here.
Now that is an ES6 function, an arrow function where h is the argument which actually seems to be a function
we then execute,
this is provided by vuejs
.
so vuejs executes the surrender function and automatically passes us another function in there,
the one we capture here with h which we then execute and this function takes a template, a vuejs
template to be rendered.
So all we need to know here is that this function will automatically render a certain template in the
place of this selector, so where we select our vue instance to be run at, like template
but here we're not specifying a template as a string but as a compiled template, so to say.
Now what we load here when running this h function which seems to be responsible for rendering it
is our app from the app.vue file.
Now what's inside this app.vue file?
Here is our actual vue application and vue files, .vue files
always follow this structure.
We get a template at the top enclosed by template tags, then we got a script holding our vuejs
code for this template,
so like a new vue instance kind of
and indeed we do have a data field here too, though it looks a bit different I'll come back to this and
then we get some possible styling we want to use.
Now you don't have to specify styles,
you definitely do have to specify a template though because we need something to be displayed and actually,
we can replace all of that
here inside this app and instead say h1 hello world, like this.
Now regarding this name here, you can simply get rid of that,
it's not related to this div ID
up here, you can also get rid of that,
it will work like this.
And what's now happening here is that we now have our template which only says hello world
with some data which we can remove for now, I will come back to the data thing here when talking about
components in the next section
and even though we now only export an empty object, what we do behind the scenes is this will compile it
to javascript code where we have a connection between template and our vue instance even though we don't
specify any options there and then we can import it here and render it
and if we don't have any options here in the object, we still have a template to get rendered, right?
So now I'm also removing here my styles and with this in place,
all I need to do is save it
and then if we run npm run dev again or if you still had it running, it will automatically recompile
actually so you don't need to rerun it,
then if we head over to our local host, we see hello world.
So this still works,
now I'm going to dive deeper into these vue files and how we can use them as actually components
in our application in the next module when we dive into components,
for now I want to know you a vue file has a template, has a script and it might have a style.
Now with these three parts here, template, script and style,
we got a valid vue file, a so-called single file template where we outsource template and script logic
in a separate file
and the important thing is in our build process with webpack, this will get compiled to javascript
code which is why we can then render it here, render basically just means override the content selected
here with the element,
so it will render it here,
it would replace everything which is inside of this app here
and with that, we are able to now use this and have our compiled template stripping out the compiler of
the package we're shipping to the deployment server.
That was a lot of talking about that
but it's key to understand how these single file here work,
we will see them in action in the next module when we dive deeper into components.